PROJECT #2

CS 5346: Advanced Artificial Intelligence

Due Date: April 16, 2012

Form a team of a maximum of two students.

Develop programs by implementing algorithms MINMAX-A-B (Rich & Knight)
and ALPHA-BETA-SEARCH (Russell & Norvig) in C or C++, language. Devise
Deep-Enough (use some heuristics as given in Rich and Knight’s book) and
Move-Gen functions.

Use Tic-Tac-Toe game as an example to test your program with a standard
evaluation function discussed in the class

You are expected to develop the program as a team. After the program is
developed and tested with a standard evaluation function, each member of the
team will work separately to do the following:

Create three evaluation functions; one must be admissible, one non-
admissible, and the third could be either admissible or non-admissible.
These functions should be different than those discussed in the class.
Execute your programs with the data and analyze the performance of the
two algorithms as well as of your evaluation functions along with the
evaluation functions discussed in the class by tabulating the total length
of the game path and total number of nodes generated. Also, tabulate the
number of nodes generated for determining each move of the players for
different depths (2 to 10). Compare the performance of your evaluation
functions with the evaluation functions discussed in the class. Also,
analyze results for different depths.
Analyze the results and write the conclusions you draw from these
analyses.
Write his/her documentation explaining the problem, methodology,
program, description of evaluation functions, any special approaches used,
and conclusions drawn from your analyses.
Demonstrate the execution of the program, if asked by the instructor.

Note that writing an efficient and working program is only half of the project.
The other half of the project is to present it in the best possible, understandable
form.

Project Submission Instructions

HARD COPY SUBMISSION:
Prepare and submit your well documented hard copy
[ABSOLUTELY NO EMAILS; Minus 50 points for email
submissions] of the project report (spiral bound), explaining the
problem, domain, decision tree, rules, methodology, the program,
modifications to the program, analysis of the program and the
analyses of results before and after your modifications were
incorporated.

ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION:
Upload source code file as well as other files needed to run the
program and verify your results. Also, include a file with complete
detailed instruction for running your program. Source code file
naming convention must be: Project2-student ID.cpp; Naming
convention of other files will be similar except the file extensions.
The file uploading instructions are given below:

Open a web browser and navigate to https://hwupload.cs.txstate.edu
Login with your Texas State Net ID and password.
Click the “Open Class” button for the class you wish to upload to.
Click the “Choose File” button to select a file from your computer.
For multiple files, use separate “Choose File” buttons.
5) Click the “Upload” button to upload the file.
6) After uploading files, you will see a list of files uploaded with
timestamp and size. You can download the files by clicking on the
name.

EACH STUDENT MUST PERFORM STEPS 1 TO 5
INDIVIDUALLY. DO NOT COPY PROGRAMS FROM ANY SOURCE EXCEPT
THE PROGRAMS I HAVE PROVIDED THROUGH TRACS. ALSO, DO NOT
COPY REPORT FROM YOUR PARTNER OR ANY OTHER PERSON.
